We are now looking at cloud storage types: ie Block, Files, Object
There are several benefits of cloud Storage: Agility and Durability, Scalability, in-time capacity, cheapisty, no need to save on-prem
If we want to just store data, we can use s3 simple storage device that can be used for keeping private data or even for hosting webpages
If we need our current storage to be extended, we can use ebs: elastic block storage
Difference: S3 can be created and used from multiple availability zones, but ebs stays only in single az.
ebs is limited to ec2 instance  but S3 is not limited, and can be accessed remotely from anywhere.
S3 is object type and can only be used to store objects like static pages, logs, or anything metadata
EBS can be used to install operating, it works as a root volume where os resides in, that cannot happen with s3
Some free ka gyan: Free tier S3 gives free 100 buckets, 5gb each and only pay it exceeds the limits  
Now even storage has class just like humans: Standard for any permanent data-> 
Standard Infrequent Acess, for keeping backup data for 30 days, after 30 days moved to glacier ->
Glacier archives the data for 90 days, not cost for retention but for retrieval,...
Deep Glacier for 180 days retention also called double recharge
Intelligent tiering: can optimize cost as its very intelligent and optimise frequently accessed data
reduced redundancy: average non-intelligent tiering: it reduces the latency and that reduces cost but only good for non-important data
Did you know? Even EC2 is a Block Storage! Haha
You only need a ec2! any ec2 within the same availablility zone can get attached to EBS
When we say scalability and durability at the time of failure, it means it creates a replica of (EBS or S3) whateevr you have 
and then connects witht the ec2
A bandwidth we all know is the number of data packets being tranferred at a time can be measured, but throught means the entire data
and how much time it takes to be received at the destination. We are measure a data packet in bandwidth and the entire data in throughput
EBS are of 3 types: General , High and Middle Class
General : By default said many times, ebs comes with ebs and it is basically a ssd with 10k IOPS per gb data and 160 MB/s throughput per volume
High (Provisioned) : 20k IOPS per GB and 320MB/s per Volume and all these can be doubled up with adding more volumes as you know.
Upar wala is good for Databases, as it is resource intensive workloads.
Next up, Middle Class: It is cheap and instead backed up magnetic drives giving 20 to 400 IOPS per GB, best for no-frequent data.
If we speak of EBS, S3 and EFS, how is the data being hosted? 
Answer: iSCSi for EBS, API ie http/https requests, EFS attached to EC2
